# The Louisville Bars Bar Chart
Louisville is known as a fun-loving town. The Highlands section of the city is especially known for its restaurants, bars and other nightlife. Best is it really the best area for a night out on the town?

To answer this question, I analyzed [ABC License Data](https://data.louisvilleky.gov/dataset/abc-license-data) from the [Louisville Open Data](https://data.louisvilleky.gov/) website to see which section of the city had the highest number of bars. My hunch was that it would be the Highlands, of course. After all, it *is* the home of the fabled Bambi Walk.

This was not as straightforward of a task as I imagined. First, I had to consider a deep, philosophical question: What is a bar? According to [Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/bar), a bar is "a room or establishment where alcoholic drinks and sometimes food are served." I think that is a good, clear definition, but that is not necessarily how the ABC License Data CSV defines a bar. Some establishments that a person might consider to be a bar (the Haymarket Whiskey Bar, for example) are categorized as restaurants in the CSV, even if they have limited food offerings. Other establishments that offer extensive food menus are listed as bars, including Magnolia 610 and the Blue Dog Bakery. 

To get as accurate of a number as possible, I wrote a SQL query that selected not only establishments with a SubDescription of "Bar" but establishments that had "Bar", "Tavern" or "Pub" in their name in the License_Name column of the CSV. (If you call yourself a bar, then I'll take your word for it.) I also included microbreweries in my search. My reasoning for this is the *primary* reason people go to breweries such as Great Flood or Akasha is to imbibe beer (many are listed as restaurants or manufacturerers in the CSV). It turns out that an establishment can have multiple licenses, and can be listed in the CSV multiple times. Therefore, I used the "DISTINCT" keyword in my search so that each establishment would only count once.

Second, I had to determine how to best represent the various sections of the city. The ABC License Data CSV has columns for ZIP Codes and City Council Districts. Initially, I grouped my search by ZIP Code. The Highlands is comprised of neighborhoods in the 40204 and 40205 ZIP Codes. However, I determined that the ZIP Codes covered too wide a swath. For example, 40204 encompasses parts of Germantown, and the eastern edge of 40205 nearly reaches St. Matthews. Therefore, I decided grouping by District would be a better choice than the ZIP Code column. [District 8](https://louisvilleky.gov/government/metro-council-district-8) covers Baxter Road near Cave Hill Cemetary down Bardstown Road to just north of 265, along with the many neighborhoods along that main thoroughfare.

A bar chart seemed the most appropriate tool to visualize the data, so I used Bokeh to create the plot and show the results. Because Louisville has a total of 26 City Council Districts, I opted to limit my results to the 10 districts with the highest number of bars. And alas, as you can see from the chart, my hunch proved incorrect. It turns out [District 4](https://louisvilleky.gov/government/metro-council-district-4), which includes Downtown, Nulu, Butchertown and a part of Germantown, comes out on top. However, District 8 comes next. So while it may not have the most bars, the Highlands is still an excellent option for fun seekers who enjoy a drink or two on their night outs.

I have saved project as both a Python file and as a Jupyter Notebook, and there are no special requirements to run the script.